# Lesson 03

## Solidity Variables

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

Now, we have the base contract to work on. The goal of the contract is to act as a tip jar, a way to allow users or followers to send you some ETH through the web, including some message. But also, to showcase the people that sent you that money by making the actions public in the web too. This means that the contract need to:

1. Identiyfy to who to send the tip
2. Store the tip sender data including the message, and the amount of eth.
3. Allow a way to retrieve the actions (the tips sent) made through it.

Let's jump to the code, open the contract file under `src/contracts/TipJar.sol` and let's add a few variables first.

```javascript
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0

pragma solidity ^0.8.4; //same as hardhat.config.js

import 'hardhat/console.sol'; // This allow you to use console.log

contract TipJar {
	uint256 public totalTips; // This will hold/store the number of tips received

    address payable owner; // identify the owner (the address) of the contract

    /*
	 * Store the "Tip" data in a structure
	 * the struct allow you to create a custom datatype
	 */
	struct Tip {
		address sender; //The person who gives you the tip
		string message; //A message from the sender;
		string name; //THe name of the sender
		uint256 timestamp; //When the tip was sent
		uint256 amount; //the amount of ether sent to you
	}
	/*
    store an array of structs to hold all the tips sent
    */
	Tip[] tips;

    constructor() {
        owner = payable(msg.sender); // set the contract createor based in who instantitiated it
    }
}

```

### Addresses

The Ethereum blockchain is made up of accounts - you can think of it as bank accounts - An account has a balance of ETH and you can send and receive ETH on that accounts. Each ETH account is identify by an `address`, an unique identifier.

In this case, the contract will store an `address` identify by the name of `owner` so you can identify who the owner of the contract is.

### Payable

`payable` is a modiifer, a way to identify an address (or a function) that can receive Ether.
So, if you want to enable and account to receive some Eth, the account need to be payable, this difference only exists in the solidity type system, it helps you (as the smart contract programmer) to think about whjeter an address should ever receive ETH from the smart contract.

### Struct

As in any program language, with Solidity you can model complex data types, for that purpose the `struct` keyword is provided.

An struct allow you to create complicated data types that have multiple properties, in this case you just model the `Tip` struct. You can think on it as an analogy of a Javascript object that hold many properties.

1. The address of the `sender` of the tip.
2. A message
3. A name
4. The timestamp of when the tip was sent
5. The amount of ETh sent by the `sender`.

### Arrays

Finally, an staple data structure in any language, the Array.
When you want a collection of "something" you can use an `array`.
Solidity offers two types of arrays:

- Fixed: Have a fixed size defined upon declaration fo the variable.
- Dynamics: Can store `N` number of elements since it have no fixed size.

In this case you created a dynamic array of the Tip struct.

> All of this variables declared in this step are known as state variables.
> Remember that the state variables are stored permanently in the blockchain, so a dynamic array of strructs is useful
> to store structured data of the contract, kind of a database.

In a similar way to other programming languages, a Solidity array have some methods that allow you to manipulate it like adding or removing data from it.

### Constructor

Finally the contract have a constructor, in a similar way as a class in other programming languages. When the contract is instantiated the contructor is first call.

This is an optional function, that can receive arguments.

In this case the constructor just define the value of the `owner` (private) variable, setting it to be the address of who instantiated the contract.